# John Wrinch Williams - Porfolio

## Overview
For this project, I wanted the site to be bilingual (English / French).  I decided to build it manually for the experience of doing so in React (no libraries). I wanted the URLs to also be translated, as I find it more welcoming when I visit a site and the URLs are in my language, even if I've switched to it.

I considered having the two translations in a JSON file, but for the small scope of this project I opted for distinct individual files for the four main pages: 

* Homepage
* About
* Projects
* Contact

## Fun features
While brainstorming I imagined a zoom-style navigation, where when you move from page to page, instead of scrolling, the new page will come in on the Z-axis, towards you.

I wanted to include once cool feature, some kind of navigation flare, without having to install any external libraries.  After a bunch of research I found [this tutorial](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/page-transitions-in-reactjs-with-react-router-v6-and-the-built-in-view-transitions-api-no-73ab52c6fd7b) about built-in transitions using the React-Router with no external libraries.  It had exactly the Z-axis zoom I was looking for!  On devices where this is not possible, it defaults to standard navigation.  Great!  So I got that integrated, using ```GlobalStyles```.

For the homepage, I wanted to have something eyecatching, so I went for a randomized message where it says "Web Developer &" ... and the second part is generated by a separate Component called ```<RandomGreeting />```.  This Component receives an array of messages, and is reused by the French front page as well (where it is sent a list of greetings in French).

I made a quick favicon for the project: my initials with a little doodad on top.

## Workshop requirements
To address various requirements of this Workshop (to try and apply everything we've learned about React so far):

* The current language is stored in Context under the variable name ```enFr``` which is set by ```setEnFr```.
* There is a```Menu``` component, used on every page, containing a data object which stores information about the URLs of the French and English pages, displaying its menu items in the appropriate language.
* A Child Component of ```Menu``` is called ```EnFrSelect```, which handles the language toggling and directing the user to the appropriate page once the language has been togggled (ie. if on ```Projects``` and the language is toggled, go to ```Projets```
* ```<RandomGreeting />``` uses a ```setInterval``` inside a ```useEffect``` to fade the new second part of the Hero page text in & out at a regular interval.
* I was hoping for a chance to use ```Fetch```, and in the Project/Projets pages I thought of non-chalantly adding a random word at the bottom of the text description of my Wordel project.  The English random word uses the [Herokuapp API](https://random-word-api.herokuapp.com/word) to serve up a random English word; on the French page I'm using an API called [Trouve-mot.fr](https://trouve-mot.fr/api/random).  In both cases, if ever the fetch fails, you will never know (I'm conditionally rendering a React Fragment if it's stuck loading).
* ```styled-components``` are used throughout the Portfolio.  I considered FontAwesome for icons but went with straight-up PNG files in the end, again to keep this project free of external libraries.
* For keeping the project Responsive, I was serving the project over the local network using ```yarn dev -- -- host``` to keep an eye on things on my phone.  The design is pretty responsive out of the box; for the big hero headline I used ```font-size: 9vw;``` to keep that under control; the rest of the text and images scale pretty well without breakpoints (thanks, ```flex-wrap: wrap```).  On mobile the contact icons line up nicely at the bottom; on tablet/computer they are right-justified, providing some balance to the layout at that size.

## If I had more time (or when I revisit this later)

* I'd like to add visual cues in the ```Menu``` designating which page we're currently on
* Visual cue in language selector or create a unique UI element
* It'd be cool if hitting "back" in the browser would cause the transition animation to play in reverse
* Consider using a specific flow of greetings on the homepage instead of randomized messages
* French translation definitely needs a pass -- when this goes live I'll have expert assistance.
* Definitely look into the plugin ```react-i18next``` for translation.  It looks amazing.
  
## Conclusion
Thanks for reading my Readme.  I hope it was informative.